Updated DataGrid articles, other small updates (#792)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/datagrid/filtering/filter-control-template.md

---
title: Filter Control Template
page_title: .NET MAUI DataGrid Documentation - Filter Control Template

> description: "Review the Telerik .NET MAUI DataGrid Filter Control Template documentation article to learn more about applying custom filter to the DataGrid using FilterControlTemplate property."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Review the Telerik .NET MAUI DataGrid Filter Control Template documentation article to learn more about applying a custom filter to the DataGrid by using the FilterControlTemplate property."
```

position: 2
slug: datagrid-filter-control-template
---

# Filter Control Template

> The Telerik DataGrid provides a built-in filtering UI which enables users to quickly filter the displayed data. To customize the built-in filtering UI for a concrete column, use the `FilterControlTemplate` property of the typed columns (text, boolean, numeric, date, time and picker columns). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Telerik DataGrid provides a built-in filtering UI which enables users to quickly filter the displayed data. To customize the built-in filtering UI for a concrete column, use the `FilterControlTemplate` property of the typed columns (text, boolean, numeric, date, time, and picker columns). 
```

> In addition, as the template column does not provide a default filtering UI, with the `FilterControlTemplate` property you can allow users to filter data in template columns as well.

Reviewer: Can you add a reference? Don't assume that everyone knows that we have template columns.

> * `FilterControlTemplate`(`DataTemplate`)&mdash;Specifies the user defined template used for Filtering UI. The template must contain an instance of the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.DataGrid.DataGridFilterControlBase` class. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `FilterControlTemplate`(`DataTemplate`)&mdash;Specifies the user-defined template used for the filtering UI. The template must contain an instance of the `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.DataGrid.DataGridFilterControlBase` class. 
```

> Check a quick example on how to create a custom `FilterControlTemplate` below.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The next example shows how to create a custom `FilterControlTemplate`.
```

> **1.** Add the following snippet to declare a sample CityFilterControl - it should inherit from `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.DataGrid.DataGridFilterControlBase`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**1.** Add the following snippet to declare a sample `CityFilterControl`—it must inherit from `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Compatibility.DataGrid.DataGridFilterControlBase`:
```

<snippet id='datagrid-filter-template-filtercontrolbase' />

> **2.** Here is the code behind of the CityFilterControl:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**2.** Here is the code behind of the `CityFilterControl`:
```

<snippet id='datagrid-filter-template-filtercontrolbase-code' />

> **3.** Add the `RadDataGrid` instance - you'd need to manually define the columns and apply the custom Filter Control Template through the `FilterTemplate` property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**3.** Add the `RadDataGrid` instance—you must define the columns manually and apply the custom Filter Control Template through the `FilterTemplate` property:
```
